---
layout: post
title:  "Potsdam"
date:   2016-04-24 23:50:00 -0700
tag: germany
location: Germany
image-url: palace-facade.jpg
image-alt: palace facade
excerpt: Potsdam is the summer home of former King Frederick the Great of Prussia.
---
<div class='img-gallery'>
{% include photo.html url="palace-fountain.jpg" alt="palace fountain with terraces in the background" size="xlarge" %}
</div>

Schloss Sanssouci is the summer palace of former King Frederick the Great of Prussia. Although we didn't venture inside the palace, we wandered through the stunning grounds and gardens.

<div class='img-gallery'>
{% include photo.html url="palace-courtyard.jpg" alt="palace courtyard" size="med" %}
{% include photo.html url="palace-garden.jpg" alt="flowers" size="med" %}
{% include photo.html url="windmill.jpg" alt="wooden windmill" size="med" %}
{% include photo.html url="palace-monastary.jpg" alt="monastary on the palace grounds" size="med" %}
{% include photo.html url="palace-terraces.jpg" alt="terraces behind the palace" size="med" %}
{% include photo.html url="palace-statue.jpg" alt="marble statue in the garden" size="med" %}
{% include photo.html url="palace-facade.jpg" alt="palace facade" size="xlarge" %}
</div>

The Potsdam Hauptbahnhof (central train station) was located 30 minutes from Berlin via the S-Bahn. Schloss Sanssouci is the most iconic tourist destination in Potsdam, but we also enjoyed some other notable sights:

- A small island near the train station featuring gardens and a Biergarten. Before leaving Potsdam, we loitered in the Biergarten over drinks (I had a bright orange peach wine).
- _Alter Markt_ (old market square), at the time featuring an art installation protesting German Chancellor Angela Merkel and her stance on the refugee crisis.
- Brandenburger Straße, a quaint pedestrian shopping street stretching several blocks.
- _Holländisches Viertel_ (Dutch Quarter), which contained many brick buildings including a tasty ice cream shop and a restaurant called _Fliegenden Holländer_ (Flying Dutchman).

<div class='img-gallery'>
{% include photo.html url="market.jpg" alt="building on the Alter Markt" size="small" %}
{% include photo.html url="dutch-quarter.jpg" alt="brick buildings in the Dutch Quarter" size="small" %}
</div>
